most of that information inside of it
besides your spend is designed to make
you spend more money and I would say
like the biggest thing I would say to
not believe is going to be the
conversion
[Music]
tracking all right welcome back to the
PBC Mastery podcast today I have another
special guest uh he's actually one of
the most if not the most requested guest
to come on so I'm super excited to
finally talk to him um you may know him
as the co-founder of solutions 8 he's
also Chief strategist at tier 11 uh he's
a co-author of the well in my opinion
bestselling book you versus Google um my
personal opinion one of the smartest
Minds in PPC uh and absolute PVC Legend
here's the man the myth The Legend John
Moran welcome to the show man thanks for
having me I know I'm gonna try to live
up to all to that that hype that was
that was an amazing intro thank you yeah
man for sure now you're actually one of
the people that who's content I always
look forward to to seeing and early on
in my career as well um I watched most
of the solutions 8 videos I don't really
um consume as much PPC content nowadays
as I did back then uh but you were
always the one of the main guys that I
really enjoyed following and always gave
me like really nice cool ideas to think
about so it's super cool to to talk to
you here awesome well I appreciate that
yeah I try to just you know try to put
my brain on YouTube so I think I have
like over a thousand videos now over
like almost the last so I've been doing
this for 10 years I think we started the
Channel maybe five six years ago so um
yeah that's a lot of content yeah man
for sure for sure all right so uh John I
I would like to start this off with one
quick question and that is tell us
something about yourself that most
people don't know yeah uh so I am uh
like a big outdoor survivalist Training
Guy um so self-reliance there's actually
a methodology of outdoor like kind of
camping and Hiking called Bushcraft
where you go out there with basically
like you know flint and steel not like a
pharoh rub like actual like you know
whacking a piece of Steel against a rock
and like a knife and pretty much just
kind of like live off the land for as
long as you can so that's always it's
always been kind of fun I've been into
that for man probably 15 years and uh
it's it's self-empowering so I think
like you know it's kind of like in your
professional career if you're an
entrepreneur you're like making your own
way surviving off of what you can what
you can forage and so it's kind of uh
kind of synonymous with business cool
man so it's like going back to that
primitive urge of just getting out being
out there and hunting and Gathering yeah
trying not to get lost yeah
yeah exactly well how's what's the
longest period of time that you were
able to survive out in your own so i'
I've only had like the time to do like
three days but you're I mean we did it
in the snow one time which is crazy so
we were like chopping down a tree and
and you know bucking it and then you
know quartering it and doing you know
feather sticks and basically Building A
Fire and like sleeping on the snow and
you know kind of building your own
Survival shelter and that kind of stuff
with uh I brought a clear plastic tarf
that's all I had uh so it was fun but it
was it was a good time epic epic I came
back yeah still alive still alive yeah
exactly um all right man um so here's
another question what is something that
you believe about Google ads that most
people would disagree with and I'm
actually super curious to hear what you
have to say about this oh man yeah I
mean where do I begin uh that's kind of
the the premise for you versus Google is
most of that information inside of it
besides your spend is designed to make
you spend more money um and I would say
like the biggest thing I would say to to
not believe is going to be the
conversion tracking um the conversion
tracking is something that uh is going
to get worse and worse and worse uh till
September 31st um that's when we're
going to probably see rock bottom but
what I would say for the most part
is never measure the success of your
business from looking at anything to do
with the conversion tracking inside of
Goog Google ads holistically um so think
about you know get good at running
Google ads without ever having to track
a conversion inside and that's where I
think the biggest misconception is
people are like well you need to learn
that the algorithm needs to learn sort
of um it comes at a cost of scale uh and
that's what's really interesting about
Google ads is they will start to charge
you based on your goals not based on
scale so if you're ever thinking about
you know what do I trust and what do I
not trust in Google ads the
competitiveness is something I would I
would say trust like who's bidding
against and where you are in the
position those seem seem to be pretty
pretty accurate um but kind of take off
your data hat and put your good marketer
hat back on uh and be able to manage
your account based on the actual impacts
of your business you'll be able to be
you you'll you'll see many more forests
for the trees I guess I would say yeah
um and that's a really cool I would love
to dive into that um get more specific
on it because in uh a recent interview
that you did on the Perpetual traffic
podcast uh which I I believe it's owned
by tier 11 right yeah yeah so um
fantastic podcast I recommend everyone
to subscribe and and check that out um
you kind of exposed how Google is
inflating cpcs and uh you're showing a
method of what you're doing to combat
that basically and I just looking at how
you usually look at Google ads I think
this ties perfectly into the whole you
versus Google idea um but I would love
to hear your thoughts about what it was
that you were able to find uh um and
what you're doing now that's differently
from what you did before you learned
that because I think that cost a lot of
um well kind of stirred up the PPC
industry lots of people are talking
about it um and and you can see that you
um have the the the deep understanding
of of Google ads of the PPC industry as
a whole to be able to do these kinds of
things and see this and and actually
test it and then prove it so I would
love to to um hear you talk about what
it is that you found and then we I'm
sure that there's going to be so many
more like directions we can take from
there yeah so what's interesting is the
way that smart bidding works I think
that when everyone has a a really good
holistic understanding of how smart
bidding Works everyone kind of pierces
the veil like it it's really cool all of
a sudden you have this aha moment where
you just begin to have this Moment of
clarity that unlocks what most people
are struggling with and one of the most
reasons the top reason why people
contact me is I can't scale and and
that's kind of uh that's usually the
main reason why people people reach out
to me so I want to bring you into a
scenario and in what we're seeing in the
day-to-day um aspect of Google ads that
is smart bidding so imagine for for an
example there's a 100 people in a
room Google knows 10 of those 100 people
are going to buy today it does not mean
that 90 won't it just means that Google
knows that 10 will or have a very high
probability of of buying today for
e-commerce for example and you may have
five other competitors that you're
bidding against for those 10 people and
whomever has the highest spend and CPC
wins the majority of those 10 people
that's what smart bidding is says I know
10 are going to convert and there's five
competitors you're bidding three you're
bidding two you're bidding one because
you're T is set at 100 versus 200 versus
300 um or your CPA is set at like you
know tcpa of 50 and 70 100 what that
means is that the person that can afford
to spend the most and use the or achieve
the least amount of margin will win the
highest amount of sales and as you scale
that campaign you earn more of those 10
people but you also cap out if you earn
seven of those 10 you're stuck and
that's where you just see increase my ad
spend and I don't get incremental
impressions in clicks you do but it very
slowly and not at the same rate of
increase as your CPC you put 50% in uh
more ad spend and sometimes you sp get
40% more CPC but only 20% more clicks
and that's where you're like uh oh I
can't scale and that's because smart
bitting is locking you into who it knows
will convert not buying more people of
good quality uh good quality searches
that is also another reason why broad
match the Search terms don't match up
with the keywords most often you see
Search terms that are Broad and you're
like well those shouldn't work but why
did it work it's because those people
Google knows what they're doing and it's
almost to the point where people can
that are interested in buying like let's
say a mouse pad can Google something
like home equipment and buy your mouse
pad and that's because Google knows okay
this person's ready to buy a mouse pad
it has nothing to do with the actual
search term or the keyword it just knows
that those are relatively close enough
that Google can can earn a sale for you
but if you bid on that search term like
HomeGoods you're never going to sell
that person ever again or those type of
people ever again and that's why Google
wants you to go to smart bitting is
because it says I have 10 people out of
a hundred that I know will buy in close
similarity to what your website says
what your keyword is and I'll allow you
to buy those and that's why it doesn't
scale so what my what my thinking was is
well how do I get the other 90 how do
how do I get 90 instead of just those 10
can I pay 90 for good qual or can I pay
for the 90% of the people with good
quality placement in Search terms but
not have to spend the four five six
seven per click go back down to the $1
and that's the basis of that test and
the way that I did that was and people
think I killed conversion tracking I did
in a sense and that's why I think
there's a large um large kind of
disruption in the industry is like well
don't you know of course yeah manual
will will do that what I did is I
changed my primary conversion action to
YouTube engagements and YouTube
engagements is a trusted Google hosted
conversion action that doesn't need to
be relearned so Google's expecting good
performance but when it can't that's
when it spiked up my positioning it
dropped my bid it basically gave me all
of those people that I wanted and now I
no longer run into the limited by bid
strategy because Google doesn't see that
this is valuable to me yet so it's not
going to price fix me into quot quote
unquote the upper echelon or the the
other auctions that aren't available to
me which is the literal definition of
price fixing so it's kind of the way
that once you understand how smart
bidding Works you're buying what Google
knows rather than buying incremental
traffic and that's that's the big aha
moment that I think people will hear wow
okay so could you elaborate a little bit
on that YouTube engagement thing you
said yeah so there's three algorithms at
play Google has three algorithms that it
mainly uses on his inbound campaigns
shopping in search for example it's
going to be the campaign algorithm that
is your campaign objective it has the
bid strategy which is obviously what you
know TCP T has man CPC and then it has
the conversion action so there's three
algorithms at work at the same time when
you use a campaign algorithm of let's
say sales or leads and that means okay
I'm going to try to get it's almost like
a video action campaign on YouTube it's
like okay I'm going to try to get a
conversion and then the conversion
action is something that is known and
trusted and longstanding like let's say
YouTube Eng agents this does not work if
you launch a new um a new uh conversion
action because now you've disrupted one
of the three now it's relearning it's
learning for the first time it has no
historical precedence and it's not trust
and doesn't even know if it fires and so
when those two are working kind of with
each other it will n naturally drop your
bid when it sees less performance all of
a sudden happening and what I did is I
just locked into a CPC that showed
historically good performance before it
scaled with my with my bid or sorry
scaled with my budget so before Google
said that $1 works now it's really
valuable to you so I'm going to cap now
now your your audience so I went back
down to that level I just never let
Google know that it was valuable but
there was no disruption to those three
algorithms um and that's why this works
interesting interesting um man so many
so many ways to go from here hey guys
real quick if you like this episode
don't forget to subscribe so you don't
miss anything in the future and feel
free to share with a friend colleague or
family member cuz that's the only way we
can grow the show all right back to the
show um but you I want to take out a
quote that you said in on the Perpetual
traffic podcast you mentioned platforms
are purposely designed to trick you to
spend more money uh what do you mean
with that and can you talk about your
findings yeah yeah so for example um
well you know what here's here's what's
really cool I'll uh I'll share screen
here for a moment um and this is what I
mean by that if I was to look at this
one of these manual tests for example
you see there's no conversions that are
being tracked um if I go into this
campaign actually just go here campaign
settings if I'm on manual
CPC and that's this is what's fun is if
I'm on a manual
CPC and I use let's say no no
conversions and I hit save if I'm on
manual CPC why can't I do that that's
number one well they and the other part
is number two is if you have to track a
conversion why is that and why is Google
so hyperfocused on calling literally
every
single client of theirs to get enhanced
conversions on because it might increase
anywhere between 5% on e-commerce and
14% of lead generation and why is the
push for a maximiz conversion value so
harsh I mean you have a lead generation
campaign it says no use value based
bidding BBB it's because as soon as
Google knows how valuable something is
and it sees you scale that's when they
can adjust the pricing based on your
goals the other thing is that when you
look at the actual um when you look at
the actual uh let me do this here this
is two examples of how I noticed Google
is adjusting then it was confirmed by
Jenny Marvin and that's why I thought
was another thing that was really crazy
is Jenny's like yeah smart bitting is
not designed for incr incremental
Impressions I was like wait a minute you
mean like scale whoa um that's yeah she
she quoted it on a LinkedIn post which I
was like that's interesting so there's
three areas here this is Raz clicks and
CPC when you have low Raz on the same
day you have 30 clicks and you have low
CPC but the next day you have 938 so it
says okay that you have 930 because you
have a low CPC now because this day was
good you look at the following day and
then you have a 224 row as but
arbitrarily you pay
$253 why why did my bid go up more than
a dollar well because that day then had
a slightly poorer performance they went
back down and gave me better performance
and Jenny Marvin on the post says it
smart bidding adjusts based on your
goals when set which means I'm going to
keep you into the TR as or tcpa that you
want to keep you fat happy and
complacent and and then this the the
next kind of case study here which is we
saw Zero Performance $119 good
performance at $160 so I had um I had a
$220 or $211 C it you know spiked up 50
cents the next day but that started to
go down here a little bit so it
arbitrarily went down but they had bad
performance cheap bad performance cheap
but I mean you can see that when there's
bad performance Google will allow you to
have twice as many clicks as the
previous period with good performance
because is trying to get it back to that
goal so you see that it arbitrarily
spikes up your your clicks not because
you pay for them but because Google
saying uh oh it's not doing as good
you're going to do what stop giving
Google money
yeah but this is um it it kind of makes
sense if if smart bidding is is taking
the averages over a longer period of
time right so then I guess this would
this data proves that that one day you
have a spike up then it's going well
pushing harder and then it brings it
down whether that is good or not let's
put that let's keep that in the keep
that in Middle um so the the approach
that you have you're just trying to keep
that consistent right consistently low
cost per click without
sacrificing uh conversions right and so
what I did is and that's where I think
uh you'll kind of see some of the same
stuff from the Perpetual traffic podcast
but the CPC was at $250 $2.78 and I mean
hit $280 and the only reason is because
my costs jumped from $800 to $1,200 a
day so my CPC hit an all-time high um
and then you see kind of Flatline and
stay there and then my cost is able to
scale out of it um and that was
obviously at the same time that I killed
conversion tracking um and so because of
that now what's nice is I look back at
the days before like last 7 Days
compared to end of May when I started
the test and I can still see that my you
know my new visits are nice and cold as
78% my first- time transactions are
increasing I have 65 first time 16
returning and this on a cash basis so if
they ever made a second purchase from
back then it's going to show up here on
a cash basis but all for kind of like
the the same cost um CS dropping CPC is
even getting lower like everything's
starting to head back in the right
direction that I want my cpms are fixed
my click the R's actually getting
slightly better um so when you go to
switch to like what happens if I don't
want the 10 and I buy the other 90 and
and it's not been a 100% success for
sure um the sales Cycles are usually
longer on the 90 they're a little bit
you know more cold to your brand but
does that mean that it's going to have
worse performance no it just may take
longer might have to look at other ways
to remarket on YouTube and meta for
example to help support your Spike up in
non-brand cold traffic inside of
standard shopping so again put your good
marketer hat back on and think these are
humans you know I I I think that once we
started to look at oh these aren't real
people this is you know numbers on the
screen you it's almost like no there's
still people that you know maybe found
out about your product for the first
time today and you're not you're kicking
yourself because they didn't buy
immediately like the other 10 people
yesterday on sparting because they've
already known about maybe your brand or
a brand like yours for last two months
you know that kind of thing so you got
to put that like sales cycle and
marketer hat back on in order to say do
I want the 90 people that will be
interested or do I want the 10 that are
interested now it's a it's a big mindset
change that people just
I think the last 10 years we've been so
focused on roaz WE we've become
complacent true true I I guess I guess
that's true maybe even lazy U yeah yeah
or train wrong well that's yeah you know
we learned the we learned to be the the
the Turner of the dial rather than
marketers yeah and I think it's also uh
a lot of people who are getting into PBC
now they don't really have that
background in how to actually manage
manage manual CPC uh how does it even
work um are you using bit layers at all
or is it just that you're setting up a
manual CPC bit and that's it set a
manual CPC bid um high priority um I add
about 800 negative keywords a week um so
you know kind of going back old school
which is like eight years ago old school
um a lot of manual keywords but I look
at always the search intent and
positioning and if the search intent and
positioning are good I hang tight I I
don't really you know I don't make a lot
of uh
lot of changes um if I see that for
example if I uh well you're just going
to have to kind of like you know trust
me on this one but if I look at my
search term that was now a 50% less for
a cold traffic search term like this is
our brand on Amazon and then our brand
here in the in the second position and
these kind of bounce between you know
the first and second position that's
okay I'm building a brand they buy on
Amazon or they buy on the website I'm
okay with that I'm driving awareness to
my brand through inbound which is high
in 10 uh I'm just paying half the price
now but I can scale yeah yeah yeah for
sure for sure so I guess you I assume
you don't use broad match then right
with manual CPC you really can't now
broad match is not uh search term based
it's yeah it's does Google know the 10
people um you know what's funny is if
you if this is kind of proven by if you
ever run a broad match and you see
competitor bids in there or competitive
Search
terms uh yeah sure yeah why if you have
a if you have a search term that says
you know blue mouse pad or sorry if you
have a keyword that says blue mouspad
and you get a search for Office Depot
that means that Google knows your site
they don't care about your keyword they
know your site and they know the intent
of the person they know that there is a
person out there that kind of wants to
buy something that you offer and so it's
just buying the person where they're at
in their journey and that is a huge
blockade for people's minds like wa wait
a minute so Google is almost a few steps
away from what's your URL and give me
your credit card yeah and less about
driving that incremental growth so yes
we can fall into the smart bitting of it
knows who wants to buy your product not
at scale just however many people are
available but when you switch on Broad
match and manual you get the just whole
bunch of junk I mean it's so irrelevant
and so bad but that's when you switch
back to exact and exact is kind of like
exact broad you know the close the close
variant are yeah it's like broad match
modified again almost almost um yeah so
that's what's cool is like switching on
exact match will get you you know kind
of that broad match modifier again um
but then you you bid for positioning a
placement so it's it's so weird because
I switch back here like I have like no
competition like everything's just m
miraculously it's getting better cuz
like now in these industries I'm like
the only person buying the other or 90
while everyone's fighting over the 10
it's actually really cool so so you
mentioned that Jenny Marvin actually
said on on a post or in a comment on
LinkedIn that smart she confirmed that
smart bidding is not uh does not have
the goal of driving incremental
conversion is that it incremental
Impressions which is essentially meaning
searches because I'm on inbound and so I
I kind of I was blown away by that it's
almost like you're saying the quiet part
part out loud um and and it was actually
uh it was in this one and I think
there's a few things here that open my
eyes a lot uh to this sort of uh
phenomenon and I'll actually pull open
the um I'll open up the the
post uh I think it was Raul um that
actually shared this on LinkedIn uh or
one of the people that kind of shared on
LinkedIn and someone called Jenny out uh
says we look forward to hearing Jenny
Marvin Thon can't actually be true we
need to game the system in order to
trust the system so called jinny out I
asked jinny she's like oh yeah that's
that's you know that's that's not
happening and I'm like okay I'm like I
guess my question would be why would
remove it the conversion value allow me
to drop the uh bid CPC and then enter
into those incremental inventory and she
said uh thanks for the question the key
note watch this the key to note is that
smart bidding does not optimize for
incremental impression
delivery okay
okay that's kind of a big deal what do
it optimized for then usually
conversions at a known conversion and
Google can't know everybody in the world
but it has people that are kind of like
okay these people are moving into more
closer to the bottom of the funnel and
you're just going to have to pay for
them and then the other part is with
smart buing conversion signals are used
to predict the likelihood of conversion
or probable conversion value then
determine when and how to bid based on
your goals and targets when set MH
that's why you're you keep a 4X return
but you can never scale it um and then
this means that you may enter different
and more or fewer auctions with
different bids than you would otherwise
using manual bidding so basically it's
you know all the scenarios that I
explained it could only mean that Google
has a finite number of people that it
knows are going to convert and whomever
that's when when I use my TR as 40% bid
or my low T as my low T as uh strategy I
just blow into a high amount of sales
because I'm buying more of the available
conversions Google knows about but I get
stuck
there dude super interesting man wow um
so there's a a key part of this is uh
the tracking side of things so you you
mentioned you set up YouTube engagements
which is going to be stuck at zero
right almost always um it's a nice hack
how do you I know you're you're big on
third party attribution but um um
actually know for a fact a lot of people
have never touched third party
attribution tools what are you using to
gauge performance and keep an eye on um
everything else except for oh I'm
getting more clicks with in my budget
how am I actually performing what do you
use in that regard so I'm actually uh
testing another tool that's it's still
kind of in development though um it's
called EDG mesh um EDG mesh is a server
sidetracking uh that is actually
delivered at the edge of the site but
not based off of a tag firing so it's
not susceptible to speed or anything
it's also can't be blocked uh by ad
blockers or anything because it's almost
like I can't give away the secret sauce
but it's almost like tagging the person
in the parking lot before they get into
the store to then accept the
cookies so it's kind of I don't know how
compliant it is just yet which is why I
don't really recommend people just
rushing to it's also extremely expensive
you're talking like eight to per month
um right so it's it's it's you know it's
not cheap at all but it is extremely
powerful and so what what the edge mesh
platform allows me to do is look at
hundreds of different uh intent based
signals based on a campaign that is 100%
accurate um it does not do attribution
though and I don't really care I don't
need attribution um in my opinion a lot
of the clients that I work with have a
large amount of their sales happening on
Amazon on which means if you're one of
those people your inapp is only half
true your third party tracking is also
only half true what's not going to be
half true though is the intent because
you're still sending them to a page you
own whether or not they go and buy from
a a different you know shopping cart I.E
Amazon that's when that's when your in
apps don't make sense so you're sting
your like your trz your tcpa your bid
caps and your cost caps on meta and then
you find out well
half these people went on Amazon so
now I have to like cut my bids in half
and or I have to double my bid and cut
my goals in half and y y y this sort of
takes all that out of that uh that that
sequence so I'll I'll kind of share with
you and tease a little bit um we have to
blur some stuff out here this is
actually a very very large we're you
know nine figure per year income company
um but uh as this load you'll get to
kind of see what this looks like here
and so it's loading right now with last
15 days of data and it is insane like
this thing is probably one of the most
powerful tools I've used for intent that
I've ever seen so think about like if
you had a if you had a view into like
Google's metrics that's as close as I
can get with this tool here um it's
going to take a minute to fetch this
data so I'll just kind of come back but
long story short I'm looking at are they
building carts what items are they
putting into carts what are they
checking out um how many unique users
and how many engaged unique users and
what's the average revenue per user and
the entry page the exit page the
duration the region the device I mean
everything and so a ni spot on inbound
standard shopping is if I start to scale
and I see the intent on a 7-Day sales
cycle start to drop I know that I'm
reaching into lesser and lesser relevant
people um I'm going into the 200 people
rather than Google knowing about a 100
but wanting to give me 10 and so that's
the tool that been using um to prove
this out and so it's it's been pretty
positive and that's for the for the big
lines right as you said if it's a 8 to
10K per month that's uh Out Of Reach for
most um there's that's why I'm working
with them we're going to be introducing
a much lower price um that doesn't have
they they do two things sight speed and
analytics we're breaking those out yeah
uh interesting interesting um and what
about um the rest so people can't use
Edge MH right now uh I know you've in
the past you've used other tools yeah um
like North Beam for example it doesn't
really matter like what the tool is but
more so interested in what you're doing
to leverage these tools to get the
insights that you're not getting from
Google then yeah yeah I'm using nor beam
right now I'm I am for all transparency
I'm a an equity owner of norbe um so I
do like that tool the problem that I
have with using an attribution tool is
again that client that I'm running that
test on 2third of their sales happen on
Amazon sometimes more so it's like uh oh
you know am I actually getting good
performance or are they going elsewhere
are they still interested or am I just
like waiting the 10 days to find out uh
the sales cycle is also about 14 days so
when I make a change I gotta wait two
weeks and then look at half that data
and then hope that it's coming out so a
good way to look at it is just um
product m is what I call it so how much
you spend on the product versus how much
did you make on the product and are they
scaling at about the same rate or if
you're looking at just like Shopify data
every dollar you put in is at least 50
cents worth the more sales on that
product and then you have to go look at
Amazon see is the total sales of that
product also increasing at the same
incremental um so usually that's a good
way to look at it if you're like hey you
know we're just starting off or
I'm lower budget don't really have the
money to put into like third party
tracking or first- party data and all
the other stuff y y yada y y look at um
I would say enac is your truest
Northstar um just the cost per acquired
first-time customer if you're if you're
scaling up
safely and smartly that should not
change by much it'll get either a little
bit less or a little bit more but it
should not be you know if I put in 20%
more spend and your endat goes up 20%
nothing's working um that's what I do
like about this tool here is uh it's
actually loaded now if I look at
something here for example I can see you
know engage active cart initiate
checkout completed checkout conversion
rate unique engage users I mean you name
it I have it in this tool and I can see
everything about these people um did
they did they even look at a product or
did they look at a category and did they
search something afterwards like all of
the intent I have now that I don't need
to do conversion tracking I can see you
know the active sub toal average revenue
per user by campaign like I know all of
this stuff here it's and this is this
everything that's on this screen here
these like I don't know 100 columns is
only what I haven't added out of these
columns here as well so I know
everything about these people if they've
been a new user how long since they've
returned uh like days since first seen
as an example like I can see these
people are you know 33 days old and
they're now coming back and converting
so yeah I I know all this stuff here and
that's what I like is I have the ability
to do this but I do share it for free
like I'm G to teach you how to do this
based on you know the millions of
dollars that I've spent this last month
on this strategy um and hopefully people
can just find Value in that and maybe
you know think outside the box and learn
to test on their own a bit at the very
least that's definitely helping uh
helping people think outside the box for
sure so here's a question that I have
for myself about this strategy U I would
like to hear your take on it is how
sustainable do you think this approach
is
um truth is I have no idea uh honestly I
I've been running it since May 5th um
okay so it's been about well was that uh
May so months yeah two months and 10
days and so far so good um and it's
worked on every test now I have seen
diminishing points of return in areas
that I looked at which means oh my
conversions week over week went
down that was true um and then I do see
a start to come back and that's why I
think that we've went into like the
people that are at to by now into
starting people on their Journey so I
wouldn't say test this over a 7day 7day
period really I would test this over a
quarter to quarter period so don't just
throw the whole baby out with the bath
wire and say kill conversion tracking
everywhere um you know do this smartly
and measure measure smartly but your
goal is to not necessarily pay a lot
less CPC your goal is
to fix the CPC at a healthy enough price
whatever that may be but then scale
that's the thing is everyone's like oh
if you switch to manual you're going to
pay less CPC that's not the point I I'll
I'll be fine paying $2 instead of $25 as
long as that $2 doesn't go up to $6 when
I start to increase my spend right super
interesting man um so in terms of uh the
testing this um I think one of the the
possible pitfalls for people could be is
that they try to mimic what you're
saying on on YouTube um and that's
definitely not on you because you're
just openly sharing what's working for
you and and you're smart and you have a
lot of experience in in Google with with
with PPC and in Google ads um but I
think the the potential danger that
people uh can find themselves in is if
they don't really know exactly what it
is that they're doing and what data
points they need to be looking at in
order to run this type of test so for
those uh kind of people who um I just
mentioned it before as well some people
have never done manual bidding um they
just grew up on on Smart bidding um what
would you say to people in uh on how to
actually put this to practice and start
testing with this in a sort of safe and
controlled way um so again that is not
to take anything away from you because I
think this is really great but it's just
for those who might think like oh this
sounds smart I'm gonna do it and then
boom everything just crashes wrecks
crashes and burns yeah no I removing
conversion tracking and uh so I would
what I would say is gain as many sources
of data points that you possibly can
and track that for like a 10day period
first before making any changes don't be
like well that's cool I'm gonna do that
too like what you don't know yet is the
cost per like new user versus just a CPC
so that's something that is huge like
ecnv is something I track very very very
tightly which means what is the cost per
new person versus cost per click mean
that could be a1ar 15 three now just
that little thing right there can
completely wreck your whole day TR and
TPA tcpa goes they go after uh existing
people they it it does the only way they
can get your conversion to happen
predictably is to go after people it
knows and I.E also people that maybe
have been to your site from meta so when
you turn on manual bidding you may see
your CPC go from let's say two to one
okay but your effective cost per new
visit just went from you know $2 to
$336 because now you're buying more new
people
which means your inapp conversions are
going to go down even if you're
measuring secondary but you're now have
actually cut your budget by 60% and so
now you're not sure what's going on so
all of those little data points of track
your clicks versus you know new versus
returning your customers new versus
returning your overall traffic to that
prodct and what you spent on it what the
what the conversion was and was it also
from other sources of channels like I
measure probably 45 to 50 data points
for 14 days before I make that switch so
I can look at all the things and be like
okay these are how those metrics changed
and why and that's why I would say is if
you're going to do that um it kind of
goes to my other ma uh Mastermind speech
that I I gave like two months ago this
right here this is what people are
typically measuring CPA and Ras that's
pretty much it this is what they should
be measuring and at least for a time
period before moving into uh this sort
of test like versus endak um so it's say
a conversion versus conversion that is
new those are going to be violently
different in terms of cost so all of
these things here on the screen I won't
go through we don't have time to go
through each one of these individually
but when I measure be uh data points
before I just switch this strategy on
these are all the things I have to take
in consideration to then say aha this is
GNA actually start to go good after this
horrible down period of buying this new
traffic as example so those are all
things just kind of take into
consideration as I make this I make test
very meticulously it's bold but I'm
measuring 50 things so I'm never worried
yeah yeah exactly and I think that most
people are just they just think that
it's oh remove the conversion tracking
uh okay YouTube engagements uh and then
um uh manual CPC and that's it but
there's so much more that goes into it
to keep a finger on the pulse to to to
gauge whether it's actually successful
or not so thanks for thanks for sharing
that those are some good insights yeah
um so two more things about this uh
before we go to the next one is is this
going to be or is this your go-to
approach right now for most accounts is
it something that you're rolling out in
well the accounts that you're managing
and overseeing a few things to take in
consideration um if we're not wanting to
scale on Google actually no um I can
make Google much more effective by
pushing on Meta Even by using non-brand
standard shopping amound um and that's
because Google is going to bid for for
the hottest audience but sometimes you
have a uh a wizzy wig that not many
people have heard of you know I just I
wizzy wig is is something you know I
just made up in my mind um it stands for
what you see is what you get it's all
development term but you might have this
cool thing that no one knows about
you're like I'm a scale shopping because
I killed conversion track and why didn't
that work like ah like it's not gonna
work so you have to take into
consideration everything in in that
company and say a do I want to scale on
Google B is it smart to scale on Google
and C is it easier to scale somewhere
else um if any of those are no or yes at
the end um yeah I won't I won't actually
do this so there's a lot of times where
10% of an audience that wants to buy
shoes is a million dollars a month you
know I don't need to scale past that um
so or I'm in a I'm in a company that
sells bulk aggregate so it's literally
tons of rocks like driveway gravel like
that that tcpa and T Bing that I was
testing there was good up till like a
20x scale my CPC like still only was 60
cents okay cool like I'm not hitting
that point to returns I would say only
use this when you're like I have to
scale in Google it's working well but
I'm just starting to pay crazy amount of
more money for the same traffic that's
it I'm paying the crazy amount more
money for the same traffic 30% more
spend my CPC just went up 30% I didn't
get anybody new that's when you use this
yeah exactly exactly so first like check
your data as well over a longer period
of time to see if you see those spikes
and then that would be an interesting
opportunity to start testing this right
except for apart from the things that
you mentioned about scaling and not
scaling yeah don't just do it because
it's a cool trick that you want to see
if you can be Google like yeah take take
your business or your customers you know
right strategy and and goals first yeah
that's that's probably the best not step
to take first always um and uh is there
is there um anything about this approach
that you're still trying to figure
out uh no not yet it's actually I have I
no joke I probably spent over a million
dollars on it so far since I've
introduced this um I am trying to break
this by the way it's not like I don't
recommend this honestly I don't
recommend it to anybody I'm just sharing
you the cool that I'm doing um yeah
I but I really I wouldn't just say like
do what I'm doing because you'd have to
probably pay me a lot of money for this
me to teach you all the stuff that I'm
actually doing I'm I'm sharing with this
so that if this becomes like a good
standard strategy or something that we
can we can rely on that people will will
kind of uh be able to start to start to
adopt or at least you know think about
can I do this I've been following John
I've been learning from it he's teaching
me as he learns himself um and is is
something I want to test too because I
think that's that's where the magic can
really happen is is if we can find an
area that this is you know as solidified
as possible um it'll be it'll be good
and I think that that's what's what
we're we're looking at is is the same
thing on this one here on this this
company this is that bulk company where
they sell the the Rocks um when we
looked at our shopping campaign here we
killed our conversion tracking and
shopping what's funny is our brand my
one little brand campaign spends ,000
now to make
$160,000 like it's insane and this
company is brand new by the way um but
that's just because we spent 94 to make
5.4 million here is all conversion
valuable R track in one thing and we
sell tons of rocks at thousands of
dollar aov so it's great but our um our
our brand now is is getting where
everything was getting on April like
it's insane so that's just because we
killed conversion tracking so so many
more people you see coming back in the
brand which means your top of funnel is
working so all those little things like
hey we hit a point diminishing returns
and we have zero competitors so why is
my adsen or my CPC tripling we're the
only people in this town selling tons of
rocks on Google shopping like there's no
reason for this to be price fixed so
those are all things I think like you
know it really helps the small people
which I love yeah yeah and it also
proves some of the suspicions that
everyone kind of has you know of what's
going on under the hood and behind the
scenes and we we just can't really prove
it and now this uh yeah this allows us
to think on a on a different level as
you said like think outside the box so I
love that yeah um all right so I have a
quick question about your um approach to
to testing it's just just short I'm
actually curious what does your
Innovation process look like because
this is something that you know comes
from you in tier 11 I I assume um what
does that look like you're just sitting
down and brainstorming ideas and oh
maybe this will be a cool test what does
it look like for you yeah you know
what's funny is I I had this Epiphany um
because I don't track uh an app um
everything else is tracked elsewhere
most of the time manually actually in a
spreadsheet um
I noticed that and I've work with 470
accounts by the way so that's that's my
my depth of of of scope of range and so
that's where I I get a lot of data
quickly and I noticed that the majority
of accounts that have either failing or
non-existent conversion tracking were
stupid easy to
scale and I was like a man this is now
kind of obvious to me I'm kind of
feeling stupid I didn't notice this five
years ago um and so I started to
investigate all of the accounts that are
getting like a five six and even 10 m
Med efficiency ratio like put a dollar
you know 10 out um were companies that
have like sometimes long sales Cycles
large aovs but Google never went over
like 65 and 70 cents in CPC and then I
also noticed on the complete flip side
on accounts that were doing good I
dumped $10,000 more a day in spend and
then had to go tell the client how we
spent $50,000
more to get 1% more more cold
traffic and I felt like an idiot so I
just kind of you know it came at a
perfect time where I'm like wait a
minute and oh like all of a sudden that
just kind of clicked for me there so
it's just because I'm in this like 10
hours a day that just like it end up
just kind of happening in my brain where
I'm like these are easy to scale and
cheap those I can't even get more
traffic and I was like this is only
spending like 10 grand this is spending
100 Grand I'm tapping out what Google
wants me to get to all of a sudden just
became like a little Epiphany so I
didn't have like necessarily a
brainstorming it was just kind of like a
happen stance but um yeah I just wanted
to share that with everybody yeah that's
cool man and that comes with experience
as well how long have you been in in the
in the PBC game like 10 years plus yeah
about uh this actually just past 10
years Yep this last month 10 years so
yeah there you go um all right man well
John I want to transition into a few
rapid fire questions let's do it so it's
going to be this or that no it depends
and no elaborations okay all right all
right
yes I know I know I know it depends um
okay all right the first one is pmax or
standard shopping standard shopping yeah
I expected that one Google has
advertisers best interest in mind agree
or disagree disagree brought match yes
or no
no a ARS automatically apply
recommendations good or
bad I like how we're both laughing yeah
suicide
um all right let's see manual bidding or
smart
bidding
manual manual nice was that a tough one
it was because it's smart bitting is
excellent only until you want to
scale but I but if you don't want to
scale smart bitting interesting um all
right will all match types except broad
be gone in two years
yes and will search and shopping
campaigns be around in two
years
yes so what do what do you think uh this
is not like a this is no more rapid fire
answering um what do you think it's
going to look like in the next two years
or so Google ads I do think that search
and shopping will still be around um
only because I know that Google has
heard the violent reaction as to pmax
and that's why they develop demand gen
so quickly um is because they're like uh
oh we found out it's caping more demand
than generating and so I think that
unless they nail it with something that
actually can generate
demand the only way for them to do that
is to not use Smart bidding in those
platforms unless those smart bidding
things are like you know new visits or
you know New Impressions but if they are
keeping with the same Mantra that they
have for L since Inception which is roaz
is King and conversions are King you
cannot fundamentally develop a campaign
that will generate demand um that's why
YouTube does it so well but it doesn't
track conversions very well
right
yeah man um all right one final question
for you uh if you had to share three
golden nuggets about driving results
with Google ads what would that be yeah
um go back to Avatar development and add
copy
that's that's where you're going to be
generating the most amount of
demand
um get good at understanding the
difference between capturing demand and
generating demand YouTube generates
demand performance Max captures demand
I've proven that actually um that is
something I think is really interesting
and then
also
understand how the algorithms and
bidding
strategies try to Target existing
website traffic first before going in
Al those are things that will that will
stop you from leading down the row ass
pitfalls yeah man super interesting and
thanks for sharing all these uh all
these epic insights uh this is one that
I'm going to be uh watching back
myself so many cool cool nuggets so
thank you for sharing so so openly as
always um where can uh where can people
find you John where could people follow
you yeah so uh follow me on LinkedIn um
and tier 11 is going to be producing
more and more content we're kind of
getting a Content schedule uh I don't
know if everyone knows this but I end up
uh I sold Solutions 8 um and I'll be you
know kind of leaving there you know
someday soon kind of thing um so that's
why you'll see less on Solutions 8
YouTube channel of me and and More Of Me
elsewhere but tier 11 uh to contact me
and Linkedin to questions and to follow
me there and everything like that
awesome I'll be posting a lot more there
as well cool yeah I'm looking forward to
that cuz I checked your LinkedIn profile
and the last post was from six months
ago so it's like okay yeah get back into
the posting Cadence I have uh we have
another very large education platform
called uh Revenue Rush um it's actually
with the current partner of ours we
scaled his business to $ hundred million
in four years um and everything that we
know how to do use that I mean running
like a brand campaign training is like
two and a half hours it's I mean so
everything that we've done we've been
filming for over a year now um and
that's something that uh we'll be
launching here in the next three to four
months so that's where I've been putting
all of my kind
of uh education power behind exact yeah
cool man sounds good all right well John
thank you very much once again and um to
everyone else thank you for listening
watching if you're on YouTube and uh
don't forget to like And subscribe all
that stuff and we'll catch you on the
next episode Peace thanks everyone all
right that's the end of this episode of
the BBC Mastery podcast I hope you
enjoyed it and if you don't want to miss
any future episodes we're going to be
back next week then don't forget to
subscribe and share with a friend family
member or a colleague uh cuz that's the
only way we can grow this show now
there's two more things I want to share
with you if you want to take your Google
ads game to the next level the first one
is if you want to get advanced Google
ads tips delivered straight into your
inbox on Mondays and Fridays head over
to PBC mastery.com newsletter to
subscribe to our newsletter called the
PBC Edge and next to that if you want to
really really really take your skills to
the next level and become the best
Google ad specialist you can possibly be
then consider joining the PBC Hub which
is our coaching and Community platform
for experienced Google ads Specialists
you can find everything about it on PBC
mastery.com Hub and with that said I'll
catch you in next week's episode Peace
[Music]